## Network Analysis of Private Contracting in Failed States
As a politics major in my final year of undergrad, I wanted to write my thesis about private military contracting. The trend of states employing private contractors to outsource military functions both during and since the Cold War has been well documented (Ori Swed and Daniel Burland 2020; Serres 2023). According to Swed and Burland: “The post-Cold War era opened the door for private entrepreneurs to market their security expertise more widely”. In 2003, the number of newly created PMSCs was 79, doubling in the two years since 2001, when only some 38 new PMSCs (Ori Swed and Daniel Burland 2020 p.3). These authors clearly show that the number of PMSCs has increased dramatically since the 1980s, until it plataus around 1200 in 2016. Private military contracting can be problematic for a number of reasons including the difficulty of classifying their employees under international humanitarian law (IHL) (citation), 

During my research, I realized that something was missing from the existing literature: a  clear accounting of which states tended to engage in private contracting, and where they chose to employ PMSCs. At the same time, I came across a dataset that could be extremely useful for this purpose; the Private Security Database (PSD). This is a database that tracks the deployment of private contractors in collapsing or failed states. It was created as part of a research project "Privatization and Commercialization of Security", which is part of the Collaborative Research Center “Governance in Areas of Limited Statehood” in Berlin (link?). Although this is not a comprehensive list of all the private military contracting that occured in those years, this analysis is an important step in understanding the scope of PMSC use by states.

## References
